So now we're
going to take off the front shoulder,
and I think I should preface this
by saying that you can break down a pig
literally a million different ways
culturally specific, regionally specific.
There's so many different ways
to do this for the purposes of today,
we're going to get it down
into whatever would be traditional,
traditionally
recognized North American cuts.
So for our purposes today,
I like to butcher the shoulder
between the fourth and the fifth rib.
You can butcher it between any rib.
No one is holding you
to any accountability in that sake.
This is the way that I was taught
because between the fourth and fifth rib,
we'll see on the other side
when we flip the animal
that will actually bypass the shoulder
blade, which makes for a lot more easy
cutting bringing our knife through
so we totally bypass the shoulder blade
and then we can maximize those pork chops
that we'll get to later on in the videos.
That being said.
What I like to do is I have to identify
where the very first rib is
and sometimes it's hidden in here,
there's a little bit of fat here,
so I have to
just kind of feel around with my finger
and identify where number one, number two,
number three and number four
is between the fourth
and fifth
is where I'm going to want to go.
So I'll grab my boning knife
and I'm going to use a reverse grip
or a pistol grip
and just going to come through
and I can go right down to the tabletop.
So once I get there,
I pull my knife all the way through.
If you're lucky enough,
you can get right through the chest plate,
which is mostly cartilage,
so a knife can come through it.
What's not going to happen
is me slipping the knife around
and getting it through this section here
because we have this whole backbone .
So what I need to do is
I just need to make a marker between
the fourth and fifth disc
in that vertebrae, and I just bring my
knife up just to make a cut.
Now I'm going to get
the hand saw
and make a cut through the backbone.
It won't take much with the sharp hand saw
and not putting in a lot of pressure,
I'm easily able to go right through.
Then grabbed my steak knife
or Scimitar, and I'm going to finish off
this cut in one fell swoop.
Or at least that's the plan,
so I can get through that shoulder blade.
Pull it through.
Now what I've got is the front shoulder
removed.
And for me, this is really where
the rubber meets the road as far
as seeing the quality of the animal and.
For those less initiated,
you may not recognize
where the quality comes from,
but I look at the marbling in the muscle
and between the muscles,
and I'm also looking at the difference in
color of the different muscles here too.
And the amount of back fat
this one really does tick all the marks.
It is an extraordinary amount
of marbling in the eye
again, as well as between the muscles
and just a generous amount of back fat.